# Human-Activity-Recognition-Using-Smartphone-Dataset
### Human Activity Recognition using a Smartphone
# I.  Introduction:

Sensor data can be recorded remotely, e.g. by video, radar, or other wireless methods. It contains data generated by the smartphone's accelerometer, gyroscope, and other sensors to train supervised prediction models using machine learning techniques such as SVM, random forest, and decision trees to build a model. This can be used to predict the type of movement performed by the person, who is classified into six categories: Walking, climbing stairs, descending stairs, sitting, standing, and lying down.

The main objective of this project is to analyze the dataset taken, calculate accuracy display what activity the user is performing, and graph the data in an easy-to-visualized manner.

# II. Software Requirements:

1. python 3.7.0
2. matplotlib 3.3.4
3. pandas 1.1.0
4. sklearn 0.0
5. seaborn
6. numpy 1.20.1

### Module Description:

A module is a collection of source files and build settings that allow to division of a project into discrete units of functionality. A project can have one or many modules, and one module may use another module as a dependency.

This Project consists of three modules:
•	User
•	Preprocess
•	Process
•	Output

1.	User module:
This section provides details on the standard user management module used to manage users, roles, directories, etc.
Here the user module is used to perform two tasks they are,
•	Uploading dataset.
•	Exploring dataset.

2.	Preprocessing module:
It is responsible for executing the encoding, decoding, and preprocessing tasks corresponding to data.
Here this module is used to split the dataset into training and testing data.

3.	 Processing module:
A Process Module is a set of process elements that can be added to other processes. A process module can also contain other process modules, so process modules can be used to build a process architecture.
Here in the processing module, the data is algorithm models like Support vector machine, Random Forest, Decision tree is used to determine accuracies.

4.	Output module:
A module output is a variable in the module that contains information generated by the module and that can supply a value to other connected variables or modules. Here the output module is used to display the recognition of human activities in the format of a graph.

# III. Algorithms used:

1.	Support vector machine or SVM algorithm:
Support Vector Machine or SVM is one of the most popular supervised learning algorithms used for both classification and regression problems. However, it is primarily used for classification problems in machine learning.
SVM algorithms are used to navigate hyperplane which could separate the two datasets and by training the model, the accuracy values can be predicted.
 
2.	Random Forest algorithm:
Random Forest is a powerful and versatile supervised machine learning algorithm that grows and combines multiple decision trees to create a forest. It can be used for both classification and regression problems in Python.
This algorithm trains the data in a Random forest and gets accuracy by passing predicted values to the accuracy method.

3.	Decision Tree:
The decision tree is a supervised learning technique that can be used for both classification and regression problems, but it is mostly preferred for solving classification problems. It is a tree-structured classifier where the internal nodes represent the features of a data set, the branches represent the decision rules and each leaf node represents the result.

# IV. Conclusion

This approach is lightweight, computationally inexpensive and can be run on handheld devices. Naive Bayes theorem performs best in our experiment in both classification accuracy and efficiency. The overall accuracy ranges from 84.6% to 89.4%.  Finally, it is calculated that the best sampling frequency is in the range of 10 Hz.

### Future enhancement


•	User interface can be made more attractive and simpler to use.

•	This project can implement few more algorithms to boost and improve accuracy.

•	This project can be made as web application or mobile application and can reach multiple users.
